README.md, before:

# **Columbia University Engineering, New York FinTech Bootcamp** 
# **August 2022 Cohort**
![image1](images/image1.png)
## *Project 2 - LendingGenie*
Objective - LendingGenie provides a flexible solution to financial institutions trying to broaden their credit offerings to consumers by using machine learning to effectively perform credit risk modeling using existing customer's data. Our objective is to enhance the value financial institutions' data and provide access to capital to consumers by relying on alternative data points to evaluate credit risk relying using technology as an enabler. 

Scenario -   Financial institutions process and collect data from customers at a massive scale. Using machine learning, financial institutions can now process and analyze data to effectively build a model using machine learning methods in order to be able to accurately estimate a customer's credit risk and assess potential lending opportunities and maximize the customer's value. Additionally, customers who do not typically have access to credit will now be offered financing opportunities based on non-traditional credit risk metrics in order to be considered for financing. This automated process also allows financial institutions to effectively establish their risk parameters to fit a credit risk model that is specifically tailored to their risk apetite based on historical data. 

Product - 

* > Our product is a cloud-based lending-as-a-service (LaaS) solution that can be offered to financial institutions as an API.
* > The product uses Python-libraries including pandas and sci-kit learn, among others, to clean, process, and fit models based on the desired risk parameters to accurately predict customers fit for lending opportunities. 
* > The product is deployed using Amazon Web Services (AWS). Specifically, SageMaker in order for clients to be able to run the model on the cloud. 
* > Subsequent development points include establishing a track-record of proven results to then move on a large-scaling process involving factoring to alternative investment funds, banks, and other institutions that look to diversify their fixed income portfolio using a risk-based approach. 

---
## **Technologies**
---


### **Dependencies**

This project leverages Jupyter Lab v3.4.4 and Python version 3.9.13 packaged by conda-forge | (main, May 27 2022, 17:01:00) with the following packages:


* [sys](https://docs.python.org/3/library/sys.html) - module provides access to some variables used or maintained by the interpreter and to functions that interact strongly with the interpreter.

* [os](https://docs.python.org/3/library/os.html) - module provides a portable way of using operating system dependent functionality.

* [opendatasets](https://pypi.org/project/opendatasets/0.0.103/) - module is a Python library for downloading datasets from online sources like Kaggle and Google Drive using a simple Python command.

* [NumPy](https://numpy.org/doc/stable/user/absolute_beginners.html) - an open source Python library used for working with arrays, contains multidimensional array and matrix data structures with functions for working in domain of linear algebra, fourier transform, and matrices.

* [pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/) - software library written for the python programming language for data manipulation and analysis.

* [Scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/getting_started.html) - an open source machine learning library that supports supervised and unsupervised learning; provides various tools for model fitting, data preprocessing, model selection, model evaluation, and many other utilities.

* [Path](https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/reference/api/pandas.concat.html) - from pathlib - Object-oriented filesystem paths, Path instantiates a concrete path for the platform the code is running on.

* [DateOffset](https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/reference/api/pandas.tseries.offsets.DateOffset.html) - from pandas - sttandard kind of date increment used for a date range.

* [confusion_matrix](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.metrics.confusion_matrix.html) - from sklearn.metrics, computes confusion matrix to evaluate the accuracy of a classification; confusion matrix *C* is such that *Cij* is equal to the number of observations known to be in group *i* and predicted to be in group *j*.

* [balanced_accuracy_score](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.metrics.balanced_accuracy_score.html) - from sklearn.metrics, compute the balanced accuracy in binary and multiclass classification problems to deal with imbalanced datasets; defined as the average of recall obtained on each class.

* [f1_score](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.metrics.f1_score.html) - from sklearn.metrics, computes the F1 score, also known as balanced F-score or F-measure; can be interpreted as a harmonic mean of the precision and recall, where an F1 score reaches its best value at 1 and worst score at 0.

* [classification_report_imbalanced](https://glemaitre.github.io/imbalanced-learn/generated/imblearn.metrics.classification_report_imbalanced.html) - from imblearn.metrics, compiles the metrics: precision/recall/specificity, geometric mean, and index balanced accuracy of the geometric mean.

* [SVMs](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/svm.html) - from scikit-learn, support vector machines (SVMs) are a set of supervised learning methods used for classification, regression and outliers detection.

* [LogisticRegression](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.linear_model.LogisticRegression.html) - from sklearn.linear_model, a Logistic Regression (aka logit, MaxEnt) classifier; implements regularized logistic regression using the ‘liblinear’ library, ‘newton-cg’, ‘sag’, ‘saga’ and ‘lbfgs’ solvers - regularization is applied by default.

* [AdaBoostClassifier](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.ensemble.AdaBoostClassifier.html) - from sklearn.ensemble, a meta-estimator that begins by fitting a classifier on the original dataset and then fits additional copies of the classifier on the same dataset but where the weights of incorrectly classified instances are adjusted such that subsequent classifiers focus more on difficult cases.

* [KNeighborsClassifier](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.neighbors.KNeighborsClassifier.html) - from sklearn.neighbors, a classifier implementing the k-nearest neighbors vote.

* [StandardScaler](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.preprocessing.StandardScaler.html) - from sklearn.preprocessing, standardize features by removing the mean and scaling to unit variance.

* [hvplot](https://hvplot.holoviz.org/getting_started/hvplot.html) - provides a high-level plotting API built on HoloViews that provides a general and consistent API for plotting data into numerous formats listed within linked documentation.

* [matplotlib.pyplot](https://matplotlib.org/3.5.3/api/_as_gen/matplotlib.pyplot.html) a state-based interface to matplotlib. It provides an implicit, MATLAB-like, way of plotting. It also opens figures on your screen, and acts as the figure GUI manager

* [Seaborn](https://seaborn.pydata.org/tutorial/introduction) a library for making statistical graphics in Python. It builds on top of matplotlib and integrates closely with pandas data structures.

* [pickle](https://docs.python.org/3/library/pickle.html) Python object serialization; module implements binary protocols for serializing and de-serializing a Python object structure. “Pickling” is the process whereby a Python object hierarchy is converted into a byte stream, and “unpickling” is the inverse operation.

* [joblib.dump](https://joblib.readthedocs.io/en/latest/generated/joblib.dump.html) Persist an arbitrary Python object into one file.

___

### **Hardware used for development**

MacBook Pro (16-inch, 2021)

    Chip Appple M1 Max
    macOS Venture version 13.0.1

### **Development Software**

Homebrew 3.6.11

    Homebrew/homebrew-core (git revision 01c7234a8be; last commit 2022-11-15)
    Homebrew/homebrew-cask (git revision b177dd4992; last commit 2022-11-15)

Python Platform: macOS-13.0.1-arm64-arm-64bit

    Python version 3.9.15 packaged by conda-forge | (main, Nov 22 2022, 08:52:10)
    Scikit-Learn 1.1.3
    pandas 1.5.1
    Numpy 1.21.5

pip 22.3 from /opt/anaconda3/lib/python3.9/site-packages/pip (python 3.9)


git version 2.37.2

---
## *Installation of application (i.e. github clone)*

In the terminal, navigate to directory where you want to install this application from the repository and enter the following command

```python
git clone git@github.com:prpercy/LendingGenie.git
```


---
## **Usage**

From terminal, the installed application is run through jupyter lab web-based interactive development environment (IDE) interface by typing at prompt:

```python
> jupyter lab

```
The file you will run is:

```python
lending_genie.ipynb

```

If running the code generates error:
```python
FileExistsError: [Errno 17] File exists: 'Resources_models'
```
You will need to delete directory 'Resources_models'
___

## **Version control**

Version control can be reviewed at:

```python
https://github.com/prpercy/LendingGenie
```

[repository](https://github.com/prpercy/LendingGenie)


___
## **Contributors**

### **Authors**

Conyea, Will
    [LinkedIn]()
    [@GitHub](https://github.com/willco-1)

Lopez, Esteban
    [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/estebandlopez/)
    [@GitHub](https://github.com/Esteban-D-Lopez)

Mandal, Dinesh
    [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/dineshmandal/)
    [@GitHub](https://github.com/dinesh-m)
    
Patil, Pravin
    [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/pravin-patil-5880301)
    [@GitHub](https://github.com/prpercy)

Loki 'billie' Skylizard
    [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/l-s-6a0316244)
    [@GitHub](https://github.com/Billie-LS)


### **BootCamp lead instructor**

Vinicio De Sola
    [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/vinicio-desola-jr86/)
    [@GitHub](https://github.com/penpen86)


### **BootCamp teaching assistant**

Santiago Pedemonte
    [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/s-pedemonte/)
    [@GitHub](https://github.com/Santiago-Pedemonte)


___

### **Additional references and or resources utilized**

splitting data
[MungingData](https://mungingdata.com/python/split-csv-write-chunk-pandas/)

dealing with compression = gzip
[Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/44659851/unicodedecodeerror-utf-8-codec-cant-decode-byte-0x8b-in-position-1-invalid)

numeric only corr()
[Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/74305444/error-while-trying-to-run-corr-in-python-with-pandas-module)

find NaN
[Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/29530232/how-to-check-if-any-value-is-nan-in-a-pandas-dataframe)

color palette
[seaborn](https://seaborn.pydata.org/tutorial/color_palettes.html)

horizontal bar graph
[seaborn](https://hvplot.holoviz.org/reference/pandas/barh.html)

dataframe columns list
[geeksforgeeks](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/how-to-get-column-names-in-pandas-dataframe/)

dataframe drop duplicates
[geeksforgeeks](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/python-pandas-dataframe-drop_duplicates/)

PCA — how to choose the number of components
[mikulskibartosz](https://www.mikulskibartosz.name/pca-how-to-choose-the-number-of-components/)

LinearSVC classifier
[DataTechNotes](https://www.datatechnotes.com/2020/07/classification-example-with-linearsvm-in-python.html)

In Depth: Parameter tuning for SVC
[All things AI](https://medium.com/all-things-ai/in-depth-parameter-tuning-for-svc-758215394769)

ConvergenceWarning: Liblinear failed to converge
[Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/52670012/convergencewarning-liblinear-failed-to-converge-increase-the-number-of-iterati)

Measure runtime of a Jupyter Notebook code cell
[Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/43307653/measure-runtime-of-a-jupyter-notebook-code-cell)

Building a Machine Learning Model in Python
[Frank Andrade](https://towardsdatascience.com/a-beginners-guide-to-text-classification-with-scikit-learn-632357e16f3a)

KNeighborsClassifier()
[scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.neighbors.KNeighborsClassifier.html#sklearn.neighbors.KNeighborsClassifier)

Linear Models
[scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/linear_model.html#logistic-regression)

LogisticRegression()
[scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.linear_model.LogisticRegression.html)

Classifier comparison
[scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/auto_examples/classification/plot_classifier_comparison.html)

XGB Classifier
[AnalyticsVidhya](https://www.analyticsvidhya.com/blog/2016/03/complete-guide-parameter-tuning-xgboost-with-codes-python/)

Install XGBoost
[dmlc_XGBoost](https://xgboost.readthedocs.io/en/stable/install.html)

XGBoost
[dmlc_XGBoost](https://xgboost.readthedocs.io/en/stable/python/python_api.html)

XGBoost
[towardsdatascience](https://towardsdatascience.com/getting-started-with-xgboost-in-scikit-learn-f69f5f470a97)

Using XGBoost in Python Tutorial
[datacamp](https://www.datacamp.com/tutorial/xgboost-in-python)

Kaggle - XGBoost classifier and hyperparameter tuning 85%
[Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/code/michalbrezk/xgboost-classifier-and-hyperparameter-tuning-85)

How to Best Tune Multithreading Support for XGBoost in Python
[machinelearningmastery](https://machinelearningmastery.com/best-tune-multithreading-support-xgboost-python/)

AttributeError: 'GridSearchCV' object has no attribute 'grid_scores_'
[csdn.net](https://blog.csdn.net/weixin_44025103/article/details/125561477)

How to check models AUC score
[projectpro](https://www.projectpro.io/recipes/check-models-auc-score-using-cross-validation-in-python)











Kaggle - Lending Club data
[Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/wordsforthewise/lending-club)

Kaggle - Lending Club defaulters predictions
[Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/code/faressayah/lending-club-loan-defaulters-prediction)

Kaggle - Lending Club categorical features analysis
[Stack Overflow](https://www.kaggle.com/code/mariiagusarova/categorical-features-analysis-on-loan-fintech-data)


___
## **License**

MIT License

Copyright (c) [2022] [Will Conyea, Esteban Lopez, Dinesh Mandal, Pravin Patil, Loki 'billie' Skylizard]

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

=updated readme file to include summary of results

README.md, after:

# **Columbia University Engineering, New York FinTech Bootcamp** 
# **August 2022 Cohort**
![image1](images/image1.png)
## *Project 2 - LendingGenie*
Objective - LendingGenie provides a flexible solution to financial institutions trying to broaden their credit offerings to consumers by using machine learning to effectively perform credit risk modeling using existing customer's data. Our objective is to enhance the value financial institutions' data and provide access to capital to consumers by relying on alternative data points to evaluate credit risk relying using technology as an enabler. 

Scenario -   Financial institutions process and collect data from customers at a massive scale. Using machine learning, financial institutions can now process and analyze data to effectively build a model using machine learning methods in order to be able to accurately estimate a customer's credit risk and assess potential lending opportunities and maximize the customer's value. Additionally, customers who do not typically have access to credit will now be offered financing opportunities based on non-traditional credit risk metrics in order to be considered for financing. This automated process also allows financial institutions to effectively establish their risk parameters to fit a credit risk model that is specifically tailored to their risk apetite based on historical data. 

Product - 

* > Our product is a cloud-based lending-as-a-service (LaaS) solution that can be offered to financial institutions as an API.
* > The product uses Python-libraries including pandas and sci-kit learn, among others, to clean, process, and fit models based on the desired risk parameters to accurately predict customers fit for lending opportunities. 
* > The product is deployed using Amazon Web Services (AWS). Specifically, SageMaker in order for clients to be able to run the model on the cloud. 
* > Subsequent development points include establishing a track-record of proven results to then move on a large-scaling process involving factoring to alternative investment funds, banks, and other institutions that look to diversify their fixed income portfolio using a risk-based approach. 

---
## **Technologies**
---


### **Dependencies**

This project leverages Jupyter Lab v3.4.4 and Python version 3.9.13 packaged by conda-forge | (main, May 27 2022, 17:01:00) with the following packages:


* [sys](https://docs.python.org/3/library/sys.html) - module provides access to some variables used or maintained by the interpreter and to functions that interact strongly with the interpreter.

* [os](https://docs.python.org/3/library/os.html) - module provides a portable way of using operating system dependent functionality.

* [opendatasets](https://pypi.org/project/opendatasets/0.0.103/) - module is a Python library for downloading datasets from online sources like Kaggle and Google Drive using a simple Python command.

* [NumPy](https://numpy.org/doc/stable/user/absolute_beginners.html) - an open source Python library used for working with arrays, contains multidimensional array and matrix data structures with functions for working in domain of linear algebra, fourier transform, and matrices.

* [pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/) - software library written for the python programming language for data manipulation and analysis.

* [Scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/getting_started.html) - an open source machine learning library that supports supervised and unsupervised learning; provides various tools for model fitting, data preprocessing, model selection, model evaluation, and many other utilities.

* [Path](https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/reference/api/pandas.concat.html) - from pathlib - Object-oriented filesystem paths, Path instantiates a concrete path for the platform the code is running on.

* [DateOffset](https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/reference/api/pandas.tseries.offsets.DateOffset.html) - from pandas - sttandard kind of date increment used for a date range.

* [confusion_matrix](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.metrics.confusion_matrix.html) - from sklearn.metrics, computes confusion matrix to evaluate the accuracy of a classification; confusion matrix *C* is such that *Cij* is equal to the number of observations known to be in group *i* and predicted to be in group *j*.

* [balanced_accuracy_score](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.metrics.balanced_accuracy_score.html) - from sklearn.metrics, compute the balanced accuracy in binary and multiclass classification problems to deal with imbalanced datasets; defined as the average of recall obtained on each class.

* [f1_score](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.metrics.f1_score.html) - from sklearn.metrics, computes the F1 score, also known as balanced F-score or F-measure; can be interpreted as a harmonic mean of the precision and recall, where an F1 score reaches its best value at 1 and worst score at 0.

* [classification_report_imbalanced](https://glemaitre.github.io/imbalanced-learn/generated/imblearn.metrics.classification_report_imbalanced.html) - from imblearn.metrics, compiles the metrics: precision/recall/specificity, geometric mean, and index balanced accuracy of the geometric mean.

* [SVMs](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/svm.html) - from scikit-learn, support vector machines (SVMs) are a set of supervised learning methods used for classification, regression and outliers detection.

* [LogisticRegression](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.linear_model.LogisticRegression.html) - from sklearn.linear_model, a Logistic Regression (aka logit, MaxEnt) classifier; implements regularized logistic regression using the ‘liblinear’ library, ‘newton-cg’, ‘sag’, ‘saga’ and ‘lbfgs’ solvers - regularization is applied by default.

* [AdaBoostClassifier](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.ensemble.AdaBoostClassifier.html) - from sklearn.ensemble, a meta-estimator that begins by fitting a classifier on the original dataset and then fits additional copies of the classifier on the same dataset but where the weights of incorrectly classified instances are adjusted such that subsequent classifiers focus more on difficult cases.

* [KNeighborsClassifier](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.neighbors.KNeighborsClassifier.html) - from sklearn.neighbors, a classifier implementing the k-nearest neighbors vote.

* [StandardScaler](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.preprocessing.StandardScaler.html) - from sklearn.preprocessing, standardize features by removing the mean and scaling to unit variance.

* [hvplot](https://hvplot.holoviz.org/getting_started/hvplot.html) - provides a high-level plotting API built on HoloViews that provides a general and consistent API for plotting data into numerous formats listed within linked documentation.

* [matplotlib.pyplot](https://matplotlib.org/3.5.3/api/_as_gen/matplotlib.pyplot.html) a state-based interface to matplotlib. It provides an implicit, MATLAB-like, way of plotting. It also opens figures on your screen, and acts as the figure GUI manager

* [Seaborn](https://seaborn.pydata.org/tutorial/introduction) a library for making statistical graphics in Python. It builds on top of matplotlib and integrates closely with pandas data structures.

* [pickle](https://docs.python.org/3/library/pickle.html) Python object serialization; module implements binary protocols for serializing and de-serializing a Python object structure. “Pickling” is the process whereby a Python object hierarchy is converted into a byte stream, and “unpickling” is the inverse operation.

* [joblib.dump](https://joblib.readthedocs.io/en/latest/generated/joblib.dump.html) Persist an arbitrary Python object into one file.

___

### **Hardware used for development**

MacBook Pro (16-inch, 2021)

    Chip Appple M1 Max
    macOS Venture version 13.0.1

### **Development Software**

Homebrew 3.6.11

    Homebrew/homebrew-core (git revision 01c7234a8be; last commit 2022-11-15)
    Homebrew/homebrew-cask (git revision b177dd4992; last commit 2022-11-15)

Python Platform: macOS-13.0.1-arm64-arm-64bit

    Python version 3.9.15 packaged by conda-forge | (main, Nov 22 2022, 08:52:10)
    Scikit-Learn 1.1.3
    pandas 1.5.1
    Numpy 1.21.5

pip 22.3 from /opt/anaconda3/lib/python3.9/site-packages/pip (python 3.9)


git version 2.37.2

---
## *Installation of application (i.e. github clone)*

In the terminal, navigate to directory where you want to install this application from the repository and enter the following command

```python
git clone git@github.com:prpercy/LendingGenie.git
```


---
## **Usage**

From terminal, the installed application is run through jupyter lab web-based interactive development environment (IDE) interface by typing at prompt:

```python
> jupyter lab

```
The file you will run is:

```python
lending_genie.ipynb

```

If running the code generates error:
```python
FileExistsError: [Errno 17] File exists: 'Resources_models'
```
You will need to delete directory 'Resources_models'
___

## **Version control**

Version control can be reviewed at:

```python
https://github.com/prpercy/LendingGenie
```

[repository](https://github.com/prpercy/LendingGenie)


___
## **Contributors**

### **Authors**

Conyea, Will
    [LinkedIn]()
    [@GitHub](https://github.com/willco-1)

Lopez, Esteban
    [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/estebandlopez/)
    [@GitHub](https://github.com/Esteban-D-Lopez)

Mandal, Dinesh
    [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/dineshmandal/)
    [@GitHub](https://github.com/dinesh-m)
    
Patil, Pravin
    [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/pravin-patil-5880301)
    [@GitHub](https://github.com/prpercy)

Loki 'billie' Skylizard
    [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/l-s-6a0316244)
    [@GitHub](https://github.com/Billie-LS)


### **BootCamp lead instructor**

Vinicio De Sola
    [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/vinicio-desola-jr86/)
    [@GitHub](https://github.com/penpen86)


### **BootCamp teaching assistant**

Santiago Pedemonte
    [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/s-pedemonte/)
    [@GitHub](https://github.com/Santiago-Pedemonte)

___

### **Summary of Analysis **

>* Data has 150 features. After data clean up and preparation number of features were reduced to 111.
>* Post PCA analysis, number of features were further reduced to 62 (while maintaining 95% explanation)

Following is the summary of results:

![results](images/results.png)
___

### **Additional references and or resources utilized**

splitting data
[MungingData](https://mungingdata.com/python/split-csv-write-chunk-pandas/)

dealing with compression = gzip
[Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/44659851/unicodedecodeerror-utf-8-codec-cant-decode-byte-0x8b-in-position-1-invalid)

numeric only corr()
[Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/74305444/error-while-trying-to-run-corr-in-python-with-pandas-module)

find NaN
[Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/29530232/how-to-check-if-any-value-is-nan-in-a-pandas-dataframe)

color palette
[seaborn](https://seaborn.pydata.org/tutorial/color_palettes.html)

horizontal bar graph
[seaborn](https://hvplot.holoviz.org/reference/pandas/barh.html)

dataframe columns list
[geeksforgeeks](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/how-to-get-column-names-in-pandas-dataframe/)

dataframe drop duplicates
[geeksforgeeks](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/python-pandas-dataframe-drop_duplicates/)

PCA — how to choose the number of components
[mikulskibartosz](https://www.mikulskibartosz.name/pca-how-to-choose-the-number-of-components/)

LinearSVC classifier
[DataTechNotes](https://www.datatechnotes.com/2020/07/classification-example-with-linearsvm-in-python.html)

In Depth: Parameter tuning for SVC
[All things AI](https://medium.com/all-things-ai/in-depth-parameter-tuning-for-svc-758215394769)

ConvergenceWarning: Liblinear failed to converge
[Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/52670012/convergencewarning-liblinear-failed-to-converge-increase-the-number-of-iterati)

Measure runtime of a Jupyter Notebook code cell
[Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/43307653/measure-runtime-of-a-jupyter-notebook-code-cell)

Building a Machine Learning Model in Python
[Frank Andrade](https://towardsdatascience.com/a-beginners-guide-to-text-classification-with-scikit-learn-632357e16f3a)

KNeighborsClassifier()
[scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.neighbors.KNeighborsClassifier.html#sklearn.neighbors.KNeighborsClassifier)

Linear Models
[scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/linear_model.html#logistic-regression)

LogisticRegression()
[scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.linear_model.LogisticRegression.html)

Classifier comparison
[scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/auto_examples/classification/plot_classifier_comparison.html)

XGB Classifier
[AnalyticsVidhya](https://www.analyticsvidhya.com/blog/2016/03/complete-guide-parameter-tuning-xgboost-with-codes-python/)

Install XGBoost
[dmlc_XGBoost](https://xgboost.readthedocs.io/en/stable/install.html)

XGBoost
[dmlc_XGBoost](https://xgboost.readthedocs.io/en/stable/python/python_api.html)

XGBoost
[towardsdatascience](https://towardsdatascience.com/getting-started-with-xgboost-in-scikit-learn-f69f5f470a97)

Using XGBoost in Python Tutorial
[datacamp](https://www.datacamp.com/tutorial/xgboost-in-python)

Kaggle - XGBoost classifier and hyperparameter tuning 85%
[Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/code/michalbrezk/xgboost-classifier-and-hyperparameter-tuning-85)

How to Best Tune Multithreading Support for XGBoost in Python
[machinelearningmastery](https://machinelearningmastery.com/best-tune-multithreading-support-xgboost-python/)

AttributeError: 'GridSearchCV' object has no attribute 'grid_scores_'
[csdn.net](https://blog.csdn.net/weixin_44025103/article/details/125561477)

How to check models AUC score
[projectpro](https://www.projectpro.io/recipes/check-models-auc-score-using-cross-validation-in-python)

Kaggle - Lending Club data
[Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/wordsforthewise/lending-club)

Kaggle - Lending Club defaulters predictions
[Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/code/faressayah/lending-club-loan-defaulters-prediction)

Kaggle - Lending Club categorical features analysis
[Stack Overflow](https://www.kaggle.com/code/mariiagusarova/categorical-features-analysis-on-loan-fintech-data)


___
## **License**

MIT License

Copyright (c) [2022] [Will Conyea, Esteban Lopez, Dinesh Mandal, Pravin Patil, Loki 'billie' Skylizard]

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
